“It is good to love many things, for therein lies the true strength, and whosoever loves much performs much, and can accomplish much, and what is done in love is well done.”

“I dream my painting and I paint my dream.”

“Be clearly aware of the stars and infinity on high. Then life seems almost enchanted after all.”

“...and then, I have nature and art and poetry, and if that is not enough, what is enough?”

“There is nothing more truly artistic than to love people.”

“A great fire burns within me, but no one stops to warm themselves at it, and passers-by only see a wisp of smoke”

“I don't know anything with certainty, but seeing the stars makes me dream.”

“Normality is a paved road: It’s comfortable to walk,﻿ but no flowers grow on it.”

“If you hear a voice within you say <i>you cannot paint,</i> then by all means paint and that voice will be silenced.”

“I put my heart and soul into my work, and I have lost my mind in the process.”

“I often think that the night is more alive and more richly colored than the day.”

“Close friends are truly life's treasures. Sometimes they know us better than we know ourselves. With gentle honesty, they are there to guide and support us, to share our laughter and our tears. Their presence reminds us that we are never really alone.”

“The sadness will last forever.”

“What would life be if we had no courage to attempt anything?”

“If I am worth anything later, I am worth something now. For wheat is wheat, even if people think it is a grass in the beginning.”

“Art is to console those who are broken by life.”

“I am seeking, I am striving, I am in it with all my heart.”

“If you truly love nature, you will find beauty everywhere.”

“The fishermen know that the sea is dangerous and the storm terrible, but they have never found these dangers sufficient reason for remaining ashore.”

“Great things are not done by impulse, but by a series of small things brought together.”

“I want to touch people with my art. I want them to say <i>'he feels deeply, he feels tenderly'</i>.”

“I try more and more to be myself, caring relatively little whether people approve or disapprove.”

“I am always doing what I cannot do yet, in order to learn how to do it.”

“The heart of man is very much like the sea, it has its storms, it has its tides and in its depths it has its pearls too”

“It is with the reading of books the same as with looking at pictures; one must, without doubt, without hesitations, with assurance, admire what is beautiful.”

“I always think that the best way to know God is to love many things.”

“The beginning is perhaps more difficult than anything else, but keep heart, it will turn out all right.”

“It is looking at things for a long time that ripens you and gives you a deeper meaning.”

“La tristesse durera toujours.

“There is peace even in the storm”

“So often, a visit to a bookshop has cheered me, and reminded me that there are good things in the world.”

“Exaggerate the essential, leave the obvious vague.”

“There may be a great fire in our soul, yet no one ever comes to warm himself at it, and the passers-by see only a wisp of smoke.”

“To suffer without complaint is the only lesson we have to learn in this life”

“I wish they would take me as I am.”

“Someday death will take us to another star.”

“Your profession is not what brings home your weekly paycheck, your profession is what you're put here on earth to do, with such passion and such intensity that it becomes spiritual in calling.”

“Admire as much as you can. Most people do not admire enough.”

“The sunflower is mine, in a way.”

“I can't change the fact that my paintings don't sell. But the time will come when people will recognize that they are worth more than the value of the paints used in the picture.”

“The only time I feel alive is when I'm painting.”

“If you don’t have a dog--at least one--there is not necessarily anything wrong with you, but there may be something wrong with your life.”

“In spite of everything, I shall rise again; I will take up my pencil, which I have forsaken in my great discouragement, and I will go on with my drawing.”

“I am still far from being what I want to be, but with God's help I shall succeed.”

“I will not live without love.”

“In the end we shall have had enough of cynicism, skepticism and humbug, and we shall want to live more musically.”

“Those who dream by day are cognizant of many things which escape those who dream only by night.”

“I'm such a nobody.”

“When I have a terrible need of - shall I say the word - religion, then I go out and paint the stars.”

“It is a pity that, as one gradually gains experience, one loses one's youth.”

“Whoever loves much, performs much, and can accomplish much, and what is done in love is done well.”

“Only when I fall do I get up again.”

“Let us keep courage and try to be patient and gentle. And let us not mind being eccentric, and make distinction between good and evil.”

“I confess I do not know why, but looking at the stars always makes me dream.”

“One may have a blazing hearth in one's soul and yet no one ever came to sit by it. Passers-by see only a wisp of smoke from the chimney and continue on their way.”

“I experience a period of frightening clarity in those moments when nature is so beautiful. I am no longer sure of myself, and the paintings appear as in a dream.”

“Don't lose heart if it's very difficult at times, everything will come out all right and nobody can in the beginning do as he wishes.”

“And when I read, and really I do not read so much, only a few authors, - a few men that I discovered by accident - I do this because they look at things in a broader, milder and more affectionate way than I do, and because they know life better, so that I can learn from them.”

“But for one's health as you say, it is very necessary to work in the garden and see the flowers growing.”

“For my part I know nothing with any certainty, but the sight of the stars makes me want to dream.”

“Though I am often in the depths of misery, there is still calmness, pure harmony and music inside me. I see paintings or drawings in the poorest cottages, in the dirtiest corners. And my mind is driven towards these things with an irresistible momentum.”

“What is done in love is done well.”

“I think that I still have it in my heart someday to paint a bookshop with the front yellow and pink in the evening...like a light in the midst of the darkness.”

“Success is sometimes the outcome of a whole string of failures.”

“Seek only light and freedom and do not immerse yourself too deeply in the worldly mire.”

“The best way to know life is to love many things”

“Keep your love of nature, for that is the true way to understand art more and more.”

“If I cease searching, then, woe is me, I am lost. That is how I look at it - keep going, keep going come what may.”

“Though I am often in the depths of misery, there is still calmness, pure harmony and music inside me.”

“One must work and dare if one really wants to live.”

“The lamps are burning and the starry sky is over it all.”

“I shouldn't precisely have chosen madness if there had been any choice, but once such a thing has taken hold of you, you can't very well get out of it.”

“I long so much to make beautiful things. But beautiful things require effort and disappointment and perseverance.”

“What color is in a picture, enthusiasm is in life.”

“What preys on my mind is simply this one question: what am I good for, could I not be of service or use in some way?”

“If you work with love and intelligence, you develop a kind of armour against people's opinions, just because of the sincerity of your love for nature and art. Nature is also severe and, to put it that way, hard, but never deceives and always helps you to move forward.”

“We are surrounded by poetry on all sides...”

“Let’s not forget that the little emotions are the great captains of our lives and we obey them without realizing it.”

“We spent our whole lives in unconsous excercise of the art of expressing our thoughts with the help of words”

“As we advance in life it becomes more and more difficult, but in fighting the difficulties the inmost strength of the heart is developed.”

“There is but one Paris and however hard living may be here, and if it became worse and harder even—the French air clears up the brain and does good—a world of good.”

“How right it is to love flowers and the greenery of pines and ivy and hawthorn hedges; they have been with us from the very beginning.”

“The more you love, the more you suffer”

“It always strikes me, and it is very peculiar, that, whenever we see the image of indescribable and unutterable desolation—of loneliness, poverty, and misery, the end and extreme of things—the thought of God comes into one's mind.”

“I take great care of myself by carefully shutting myself away”

“So what do you want? Does what happens inside show on the outside? There is such a great fire in one’s soul, and yet nobody ever comes to warm themselves there, and passersby see nothing but a little smoke coming from the top of the chimney, and go on their way.”

“In my view, I am often immensely rich, not in money, but (although just now perhaps not all the time) rich because I have found my metier, something I can devote myself to heart and soul and that gives inspiration and meaning to my life.”

“And the memories of all we have loved stay and come back to us in the evening of our life. They are not dead but sleep, and it is well to gather a treasure of them.”

“How rich art is, if one can only remember what one has seen, one is never empty of thoughts or truly lonely, never alone.”

“Do not quench your inspiration and your imagination; do not become the slave of your model.”

“Let me stop there, but my God, how beautiful Shakespeare is, who else is as mysterious as he is; his language and method are like a brush trembling with excitement and ecstasy. But one must learn to read, just as one must learn to see and learn to live.”

“Bookstores always remind me that there are good things in this world”

“To do good work one must eat well, be well housed, have one's fling from time to time, smoke one's pipe, and drink one's coffee in peace”

“I often think of you all, one cannot do what one wants in life. The more you feel attached to a spot, the more ruthlessly you are compelled to leave it, but the memories remain, and one remembers - as in a looking glass, darkly - one's absent friends.”

“I am not an adventurer by choice but by fate.”

“How difficult it is to be simple!”

“An artist needn't be a clergyman or a church warden, but he must have a warm heart for his fellow men”

“Both she and I have grief enough and trouble enough, but as for regrets – neither of us have any.”

“...to look at the stars always makes me dream, as simply as I dream over the black dots of a map representing towns and villages. Why, I ask myself, should the shining dots of the sky not be as accessible as the black dots on the map of France?”

“It is not only by one's impulses that one achieves greatness, but also by patiently filing away the steel wall that separates what one feels from what one is capable of doing.”

“It must be good to die in the knowledge that one has done some truthful work...and to know that, as a result, one will live on in the memory of at least a few and leave a good example for those who come after.”

“I feel that there is nothing more truly artistic than to love people.”

“be careful not to become narrow-minded, or afraid of reading what is well written, quite the contrary, such writings are a source of comfort in life.”

“To understand blue you must first understand yellow and orange”

“I hope to depart in no other way than looking back with love and wistfulness and thinking, oh paintings that I would have made..”

“In would rather die of passion than of boredom.”

“It's better to have a gay life of it than to commit suicide.”

“The more ugly, old, nasty, ill, and poor I become the more I want to get my own back by producing vibrant, well-arranged, radiant colour.”

“For my part I know nothing with any certainty, but the sight of the stars makes me dream.”

“Many painters are afraid of the blank canvas, but the blank canvas is afraid of the painter who dares and who has broken the spell of 'you can't' once and for all.”

“The victory one would gain after a whole life of work and effort is better than one that is gained sooner.”

“I work as diligently on my canvases as the laborers do in their fields.”

“That is how I look at it; to continue, to continue, that is what is necessary.”

“One of the most beautiful things to do is to paint darkness, which nevertheless has light in it.”

“If one loves nature one finds beauty everywhere.”

“I thought I would be understood without words.”

“I can very well do without God both in my life and in my painting, but I cannot, suffering as I am, do without something which is greater than I, which is my life, the power to create.”

“money can be repaid, but not kindness such as yours.”

“Sometimes, dear brother, I know so well what I want. I am quite able to do without God, both in my life and in my painting, but what I cannot do without, unwell as I am, is something greater than myself, which is my life, the power to create.”

“That I was not suited to commerce or academic study in no way proves that I should also be unfit to be a painter.”

“Drawing is the root of everything!”

“...a woman does not grow old as long as she loves &amp; is loved.”

“But what I wanted to say is this: After the period of melancholy is over you will be stronger than before, you will recover your health, &amp; you will find the scenery round you so beautiful that you will want nothing but paint”

“The earth from afar shines like a star”

“I am unable to describe exactly what is the matter with me; now and then there are horrible fits of anxiety, apparently without cause, or otherwise a feeling of emptiness and fatigue in the head.”

“My great longing is to learn to make those very incorrectnesses, those deviations, remodellings, changes of reality, so that they may become, yes, untruth if you like - but more true than the literal truth.”

“..it has always been so much my desire to paint for those who don’t know the artistic side of a painting.”

“Modern reality has got such a hold on us that... when we attempt to reconstruct the ancient days in our thoughts...the minor events of our lives tear us away from our meditations, and... thrust us back into our personal [problems]”

“Love is something eternal... The aspect may change but not the essence.”

“I'll start with the small things”

“She and I are two unhappy ones who keep together and carry our burdens together, and in this way unhappiness is changed to joy, and the unbearable becomes bearable.”

“Illusions may fade, but the sublime remains.”

“A good picture is equivalent to a good deed.”

“So instead of giving in to despair I chose active melancholy, in so far as I was capable of activity, in other words I chose the kind of melancholy that hopes, that strives and that seeks, in preference to the melancholy that despairs numbly and in distress.”

“Well, what shall I say; our inward thoughts, do they ever show outwardly? There may be a great fire in our soul, but no one ever comes to warm himself at it, and the passers-by see only a little bit of smoke coming through the chimney, and pass on their way.”

“I have tried to express the idea that the café is a place where one can ruin oneself, go mad, or commit a crime.”

“Love a friend, love a wife, something, whatever you like, but one must love with a lofty and serious intimate sympathy, with strength, with intelligence, and one must always try to know deeper, better, and more.”

“What would be of life if we didn´t have the courage of doing something new?”

“Fortunately for me, I know well enough what I want, and am basically utterly indifferent to the criticism that I work to hurriedly. In answer to that, I have done some things even more hurriedly theses last few days.”

“How much sadness there is in life. Still, it won't do to become depressed, one should turn to other things, and the right thing is work, but there are times when one can only find peace of mind in the realization: I, too, shall not be spared by unhappiness.”

“I wanted to make people think of a totally different way of living from that which we, educated people, live. I would absolutely not want anyone to find it beautiful or good without a thought.”

“Even the knowledge of my own fallibility cannot keep me from making mistakes. Only when I fall do I get up again.”

“I thought I would be understood without words”

“The cure for him would be to take a good long look at some potato plants, which have lately had such a deep and distinctive colour and tone, instead of driving himself mad looking at pieces of yellow satin and gold leather.”

“In the fullness of artistic life there is, and remains, and will always come back at times, that homesick longing for the truly ideal life that can never come true.”

“There is safety in the very heart of danger.”

“There are two ways of reasoning about painting: how to do it and how not to do it; how to d it with great deal of drawing and not much colour, how not to do it with a great deal of colour and not much drawing.”

“I am so angry with myself because I cannot do what I should like to do, and at such a moment one feels as if one were lying bound hand and foot at the bottom of a deep dark well, utterly helpless.”

“The simple minded know many things that the wise ignore”

“The way to know life is to love many things.”

“I want to paint humanity, humanity and again humanity.”

“One begins by plaguing oneself to no purpose in order to be true to nature, and one concludes by working quietly from one's own palette alone, and then nature is the result.”

“The more I think it over, the more I feel that there is nothing more truly artistic than to love people.”

“One must seize the reality of one’s fate and that’s that.”

“Future generations will probably be able to enlighten us on this very interesting subject, and then science itself—with all due respect—may reach conclusions that are more or less in keeping with Christ's sayings about the other half of our life.”

“For me, life may well continue in solitude. I have never perceived those to whom I have been most attached other than as through a glass, darkly.”

“So don’t study and swot too much, for that makes one sterile. Enjoy yourself too much rather than too little, and don’t take art or love too seriously- there is very little one can do about it”

“There is nothing more beautiful than nature early in the morning.”

“I am seeking, I am striving, I am in it with all my heart .”

“I would sooner paint people's eyes than cathedrals, for there is something in the eyes that is lacking in a cathedral - however solemn and impressive it may be. To my mind a man's soul, be it that of a poor beggar or of a streetwalker, is more interesting.”

“Poetry surrounds us everywhere, but putting it on paper is, alas, not so easy as looking at it.”

“Our goals can only be reached through a vehicle of a plan, in which we must fervently believe, and upon which we must vigorously act. There is no other route to success.” - Vincent van Gogh”

“Where friendship blooms, life is reborn.”

“There are often beams in our eye that we know not of. Let us therefore ask that our eye may become single, for then we ourselves shall become wholly single.”

“At present this horror of life is already less pronounced, and the melancholy less acute. But I still have no will, and hardly any desires, or none at all that are to do with ordinary life.”

“It's not the language of painters but the language of nature which one should listen to, for reality is more important than the feeling for pictures.”

“You can live to be old or young, but you'll always have moments when you lose your head.”

“I knew well enough that one could fracture one’s legs and arms and recover afterward, but I did not know that you could fracture the brain in your head and recover from that too.”

“If one feels the need of something grand, something infinite, something that makes<br>one feel aware of God, one need not go far to find it.”

“You can feel the stars and the infinity of the sky. Since life, in spite of everything, is like a fairytale.”

“In order to work and to become an artist one needs love. At least, one who wants sentiment in his work must in the first place feel it himself, and live with his heart.”

“Do you know what frees one from this captivity? It is every deep serious affection. Being friends, being brothers, love, these open the prison by supreme power, by some magic force. Where sympathy is renewed, life is restored.”

“Do go on doing a lot of walking and keep up your love of nature, for that is the right way to understand art better and better. Painters understand nature and love her and teach us to see. And there are painters who never do anything that is no good...”

“Lord, keep my thoughts green! That is something one should say over and over again.”

“Be of good heart.”

“For love is something positive, so strong, so real that it is impossible for one who loves to take back that feeling...

“It quite often makes me feel sad that painting’s like a bad mistress one might have, who’s always spending, spending and it’s never enough.. [Letter 630, Arles, 23 June 1888]”

“And sometimes there is relief, sometimes there is new inner energy, and one stands up after it; till at last, someday, one perhaps doesn't stand up any more, que soit, but that is nothing extraordinary, and I repeat, in my opinion, such is the common.”

“I take great care of myself by carefully shutting myself away.”

“My interest in drawing has died down here in England, but maybe I'll be in the mood again some day or other. Right now I am doing a great deal of reading”

“Aspiro alle stelle che non posso raggiungere.”

“I feel that there's nothing more genuinely artistic than to love people.”

“The more I think about it, the more I realize there is nothing more artistic than to love others.”

“What would life be if we had no courage to attempt anything? If you hear a voice within saying ‘You are not a painter’ then by all means paint – and that voice will be silenced.”

“What is drawing? How does one learn it? It is working through an invisible iron wall that seems to stand between what one feels and what one can do.”

“Admire as much as you can, most people don't admire enough.”

“...I couldn't care less what the colours are in reality.”

“...gerçeklikten daha gerçek olan nedir, yaşamın kendisinden daha çok yaşam nerededir? Ve bizler, elimizden geldiğince yaşamaya çalışan bizler, neden daha yoğun yaşayamıyoruz?”

“I am still far from being what I want to be, but with God's help I shall succeed”

“I am not an adventurer by choice but by fate”

“For my part I know nothing with any certainty, but the sight of stars makes me dream”

“Anyone who leads an upright life and experiences real difficulty and disappointment and yet is not crushed by them is worth more than one for whom everything has always been plain sailing and who has known nothing but relative prosperity.”

“Whoever lives sincerely and encounters much trouble and disappointment, but is not bowed down by them, is worth more than one who has always sailed before the wind and has only known relative prosperity.”

“But you must love with a high, serious intimate sympathy, with a will, with intelligence, and you must always seek to know more thoroughly, better, and more.”

“I believe more and more that God must not be judged harshly on this earth. It is one of His sketches that has turned out badly.”

“I try more and more to be myself, caring relatively little whether people approve or disapprove”

“Baharda çilek yemek, evet, olur böyle şeyler yaşamda, ama yılın çok kısa bir bölümünde yalnızca ve şu sıra çok uzakta.”

“Love always causes trouble, that’s true, but in its favour, it energizes”

“Iată de ce, înainte de toate, sunt îndemnat să cred că hotărârea cea mai bună pe care aș putea-o lua, ca și cea mai înțeleaptă, este aceea de-a pleca și de-a rămâne la distanța cuvenită, să fiu ca și cum n-aș fi.”

“And then there are painters who never do anything that is no good, who cannot do anything bad, just as there are ordinary people who can do nothing but good.”

“În fine, nu mă pot lăsa pradă melancoliei, trebuie să găsesc o ieșire, căci datoria mea e să lucrez. Sunt clipe când nu-mi găsesc liniștea decât în certitudinea că nenorocirea nu mă va cruța nici pe mine.”

“But when shallI ever get round to doing the <i>starry</i> sky, that picture which is always on my mind?”

“To me, that book has been both a revelation and a gospel.”

“Van Gogh: “I know nothing<br>with any certainty, but the sight of stars makes me<br>dream.”

“No particular reason for anything. ~I'm free~ And that is the main thing.”

“Je t'ai envoyé aujourd'hui mon portrait à moi; il faut le regarder pendant quelque temps, tu verras, j'espère que ma physionomie s'est bien calmée, quoique le regard soit vague davantage qu'auparavant, à ce qui me parait.”

“Don't regret that your life is too easy, mine is rather easy too; I think that life is pretty long and that the time will arrive soon enough in which "another shall gird thee and carry thee where thou wouldst not.”

“One morning the wind turns, and there is a thaw. And so I must still have hope.”

“You don't know how paralyzing that is, that stare of a blank canvas, which says to the painter, ‘You can't do a thing’.”

“أفضل أن أموت حباً... على أن أموت مللاً...”

“Es bueno amar tanto como se pueda, porque ahí radica la verdadera fuerza. Y el que mucho ama realiza grandes cosas y se siente capaz, y lo que hace por amor está bien hecho”

“What I am in the eyes of most people — a nonetity, an eccentric, or an unpleasant person — somebody who has no position in society and never will have, in short, the lowest of the low.”

“Ve kişi, kadınları çalışmalarının dışında tutmakla çağdışı bir tutum içine girmiş olur.<br>Her yerde aynı bu, ister kentte ol ister kırsal yörelerde; zamana ayak uydurmak istiyorsan eğer, kadınları mutlaka hesaba katacaksın.”

“There are idlers and idlers, who form a contrast.”

“Biliyorsun, şakayık çiçeği Jeannine'ndir, hatmi çiçeği Quost'a aittir, ayçiçeği de galiba biraz benim...”

“Love is the best and the noblest thing in the human heart, especially when it is tested by life as gold is tested by fire.”

“You may know that the peony is Jeannin's, the hollyhock belongs to Quost, but the sunflower is mine in a way.”

“One morning, after many dark nights of despair, an irrepressible longing to live will announce to us the fact that all is finished and that suffering has no more meaning than happiness.”

“Well, being sorry and giving up doesn’t help us on; the only thing to do is to push forward.”

“Every man must bear his own burden.”

“Life has quicksands, life has snares,”

“In an artist's life, death is perhaps not the most difficult thing.”

“how difficult it is to be simple”

“I prefer painting people’s eyes to cathedrals, for there is something in the eyes that is not in the cathedral, however solemn and imposing the latter may be — a human soul, be it that of a poor beggar or of a street walker, is more interesting to me.”

“Painters understand nature &amp; love her &amp; teach us to see.”

“But in order to achieve that noble shade of yellow I achieved last summer I simply had to give myself quite a boost.”

“It is true, however, that first impressions often change, for we know only too well that all is not gold that glitters and that though there may be a bright dawn, there is also a dark midnight and a burning, oppressive heat at noon.”

“oy where did my ear go?”

“I’m getting on well here, I’ve got a lovely home &amp; I’m finding it very pleasurable taking a look at London &amp; the English way of life &amp; the English people themselves, &amp; then I’ve got nature &amp; art &amp; poetry, &amp; if that isn’t enough, what is?”

“لا يحصل الشخص على كل شيء مرة واحدة، ومعظم هؤلاء ممن أصبحوا شيئًا عظيمًا قد مروا بمرحلة طويلة وصعبة من التحضير، وتلك كانت الصخرة التي تأسس عليها بيتهم”

“Painting a picture is as difficult as finding a large or a small diamond. Now, however, whereas everybody recognizes the value of a louis d’or or a pure pearl, those who cherish pictures and believe in them are unfortunately rare. But they exist nonetheless.”

“The best way to know God is to love many things.”

“For my part I know nothing with any certainty, but the sight of the stars makes me dream. Vincent Van Gogh”

“Everything on earth changes - we have no abiding city here - it is the experience of everybody. That it is God’s will that we should part with what is dearest on earth - we ourselves change in many respects, we are not what we once were, we shall not remain what we are now.”

“If boyhood and youth are but vanity, must it not be our ambition to become men?”

“Atualmente estou descontente comigo e descontente com o que faço, mas entrevejo a possibilidade de fazer melhor na sequência.”

“exchanging pictures with other artists. In one word, with much energy, with a sincere personal feeling of colour in nature I would say an artist can get on here notwithstanding the many obstructions. And I intend remaining here still longer.”

“Great things are not something accidental, they must be distinctly willed.”

“In Antwerp I did not even know what the impressionists were, now I have seen them and though not being one of the club yet I have much admired certain”

“Trade is slow here. The great dealers sell Millet, Delacroix, Corot, Daubigny, Dupré, a few other masters at exorbitant prices. They do little or nothing for young artists. The second class dealers contrariwise sell those at very low prices.”

“In the first place, it pleased me enormously that Theo and Mr. Tersteeg have entered into business relations in order to make the work of the painters here who are called impressionists known in Holland too.”

“Because in a time of financial crisis like the present, money is what ammunition is to a soldier in a hostile country - don’t let’s waste our powder.”

“pareceu-me que você, assim como eu, estava sofrendo por ver sua juventude passar em brancas nuvens; mas se ela nasce e ressurge no que fazemos, nada está perdido e a capacidade de trabalhar é uma nova juventude.”

“Cada vez mais eu acho que não se deve julgar o bom Deus a partir deste mundo daqui, pois este é um estudo seu que não deu certo.”

“Cuando siento una necesidad de religión, salgo de noche y pinto las estrellas.”

“I had left romantic illusions behind me. I must make up for lost time now. I must work hard, but just when one has left the lost illusions behind, work becomes a necessity and one of the few pleasures left. And this gives a great quiet and tranquillity.”

“Yet even then I do not think that my madness would take the form of persecution mania, since when in a state of excitement my feelings lead me rather to the contemplation of eternity, and eternal life. But all the same I must beware of my nerves, etc.”

“There was a time when I loved Vincent a lot and he was my best friend but that is over now. It seems to be even worse from his side, for he never loses an opportunity to show me that he despises me and that I revolt him. That makes the situation at home almost unbearable.”

“Pois às vezes é diabolicamente duro ficar totalmente fora da pintura e do mundo dos pintores e não ver nada dos outros.”

“Contudo já seria consolador se soubéssemos que virá uma geração de artistas mais felizes”

“Quanta beleza na arte, desde que possamos reter o que vimos. Jamais ficamos então deserdados, nem verdadeiramente solitários, jamais sós”

“Ты сообщаешь, что ничего не делал на протяжении двух недель. Мне, конечно, знакомы такие периоды: они у меня тоже были прошлым летом, когда я работал над рисунком не непосредственно, а, так сказать, косвенно. Это такое время, когда проходишь через какие-то метаморфозы.”

“the fear of madness passes from me considerably upon seeing from close at hand those who are affected with it, as I may very easily be in the future.”

“To do that well, one must have the Gospel in one's heart; may He grant that. God says, Let there be light! And there is light. He speaks and it is there. He commands and there it stands and stands firm. He who calls us, is faithful, and shall accomplish it.”

“Todas as suas bondades para comigo, hoje eu as achei maiores do que nunca, não consigo dizer-lhe como eu o sinto, mas eu lhe asseguro que essa bondade foi de um bom quilate, e se você não vê seus resultados, meu caro irmão, não se atormente por isto, sua bondade permanecerá.”

“Though I am often in the depths of misery, there is still calmness, pure harmony, and music inside me.”

“mas sei muito bem como fiquei impressionado pela harmonia de verde, vermelho, preto, amarelo, azul, castanho, cinza.”

“pois me restam graves remorsos, difíceis de definir. Acho que esta foi a causa de eu ter gritado tanto nas crises, eu queria me defender e não conseguia mais”

“O possível passional significa pouco para mim, enquanto que me resta contudo, atrevo-me a crer, o poder de sentir-me ligado aos seres humanos com os quais viverei.”

“Het hart van de mens lijkt erg veel op de zee, het kent zijn stormen, het kent zijn getijden en in zijn diepten liggen ook parels.”

“é bem verdade que um monte de pintores ficam loucos, é uma vida que leva a ficar muito abstraído, para dizer o mínimo.”

“mas no entanto vejo na minha obra um eco do que me impressionou, vejo que a natureza me contou algo, falou comigo, e que eu anotei isto em estenografia.”

“Se eu me relanço em cheio no trabalho, muito bem, mas continuo sempre louco.”

“one is always in respectable company among rather well-to-do bourgeois, one does not notice this so much perhaps, but if one has dined for years on la vache enragée, as I have, one cannot deny that great misery is a fact that weights the scale.”

“Thank you very much too for all the steps you have taken toward the exhibition of the Independents. On the whole I’m very glad that they’ve been put with the other impressionists.”

“Fortunately for me, I do not hanker after victory any more, and all that I seek in painting is a way to make life bearable.”

“O never think the dead are dead, So long as there are men alive, The dead will live, the dead will live.” That’s how I feel it. Nothing sadder than that.”

“Veja você, o que reconforta é não ter que correr sempre só com nossos pensamentos e nossas ideias, mas colaborar e trabalhar com um grupo. E assim também somos capazes de muito mais, e somos infinitamente mais felizes.”

“Aștept în cel mai desăvârșit calm să ia o hotărâre.”

“Iar, dacă m-aș hotărî să mă las în voia pornirilor mele, nimic nu mi-ar fi mai ușor decât să mă uit cu dispreț la tot ce-am făcut și să-mi calc tablourile în picioare, așa cum face père Cézanne.”

“Rappard said to me, “A human being is not a lump of peat, since a human being cannot bear being flung into a loft to be forgotten there.” And he pointed out that he considered it a great misfortune for me not to be able to live at home. Do please give that some thought.”

“Güç işe girişmek iyi geliyor bana. Ama gene de - açıkça söyleyeyim mi? - korkunç bir din ihtiyacı duyuyorum - onun için de geceleri sokağa çıkıp yıldızları boyamaya gidiyorum, hep de böyle bir resim tasarlıyorum kafamda bir grup canlı arkadaş figürüyle…”

“Mind, as to Gauguin we must not give up the idea of coming to his aid if the suggestion is acceptable as it stands, but we do not need him. So do not think that working alone bothers me, and do not push the affair on my account, be very sure of that.”

“Contudo procuro sistematicamente evitar as brigas, e prossigo quietinho no meu caminho.”

“But if Gauguin and his Jewish bankers came tomorrow and asked me for no more than 10 pictures for a society of dealers, and not a society of artists, on my word I do not know if I’d have confidence in it, though I would willingly give 50 to a society of artists.”

“No entanto, por menos que diga, eu os irrito e eles me irritam”

“It is possible that these great geniuses are only madmen, and that one must be mad oneself to have boundless faith in them and a boundless admiration for them. If this is true, I should prefer my insanity to the sanity of the others.”

“acredito que frequentemente o que sentimos ou o que pressentimos instintivamente torna-se claro e certo quando somos guiados por alguns textos que tenham um real sentido prático.”

“But in the course of four months 250 fr. must be deducted for the payment of colours and rent; well, then my work is hampered and obstructed to such an extent that I am at my wit’s end, and I prefer to tell the fellows: Sell the whole lot! But let me work!”

“Para ter sucesso é preciso ambição, e a ambição me parece absurda.”

“It does one good to read things like that, more than most of the stuff the decadents write, with their passion for saying the most obvious things in the most wildly contorted phrases.”

“Biri Rembrandt'ı seviyor diyelim, ama ciddi seviyor, o kişi Tanrı'nın var olduğunu bilir ve derinden inanır. Biri Fransız Devrimi'nin tarihini inceliyor diyelim, o kişi imansız olamaz, en büyük şeylerin gerisinde de tanrısal bir erkin kendini gösterdiğini anlar.”

“But I, for my part, am convinced that in this respect one can have faith in modern art. The fact that I have a definite belief about art makes me sure of what I want in my own work, and I shall try to reach it even at the risk of my own life.”

“Não posso me preocupar com o que as pessoas pensam de mim, é preciso que eu avance, é nisto que tenho que pensar”

“So now, when anyone says that such and such is done too quickly, you can reply that they have looked at it too quickly.”

“There are certain times when it is far from clear to us that art should be something sacred or good.”

“And then, don’t forget that I am not a born melancholic. The general nickname I have in this neighborhood is “ `t schildermenneke,” [The little painter fellow] and it is not without a certain dose of malice that I go abroad.”

“A arte é ciumenta, ela não quer que a doença lhe tenha precedência. Faço, portanto, a seu gosto.”

“Am vrut sa arat ca a muri... este un act la fel de simplu ca si caderea unei frunze... cateva maini de pamant intoarse si o cruce mica de lemn.”

“I am in the middle of reading Balzac, César Birotteau. I will send it to you when I have finished it - I think I shall read the whole of Balzac again.”

“Quero fazer desenhos que impressionem certas pessoas.”

“The clergymen call us sinners, conceived and born in sin. Bah! What confounded nonsense that is. Is it a sin to love, to feel the need for love, not to be able to live without love? I consider a life without love a sinful and immoral state.”

“I, for my part, am always glad that I have read the Bible more carefully than many people do nowadays, just because it gives me some peace of mind to know that there used to be such lofty ideals.”

“O que eu quero dizer e o que eu aspiro é tremendamente difícil, e no entanto não acredito estar aspirando alto demais.”

“Is the Bible enough for us? These days I think Jesus himself would say again to those who sit down in melancholy, “It is not here, it is risen. Why seek ye the living among the dead?”

“I would rather die of passion than of boredom.”

“Em suma, quero chegar ao ponto em que digam de minha obra: este homem sente profundamente, e este homem sente delicadamente.”

“I should very much like to see Millet reproductions in the schools. I think there are children who would become painters if only they saw good things.”

“Não é tanto a língua dos pintores, mas a língua da natureza à qual é preciso dar ouvidos.”

“People who do nothing but fall in love are perhaps more serious and saintly than those who sacrifice their love and their hearts to an idea.”

“When God supports us, illness is no misfortune, especially when we get new ideas and new intentions in those days of illness that would not have come to us if what not been ill, and when we achieve clearer faith and stronger trust in God.”

“Still, I went with Vincent a few times to listen to a Wagner concert before he left, and we both liked it very much. It still seems strange that he has gone, he has lately meant so much to me.”

“Não te oculto que teria preferido morrer a causar e a sofrer tantos dissabores.<br>Mas que queres? Sofrer sem se queixar é a única lição que tratamos de aprender na vida.”

“Your life would be empty indeed if you didn't regret anything.”

“But then I know that I am not - not their equal - but didn’t the Flauberts and Balzacs make the Zolas and Maupassants? So here’s to - not us, but to the generation to come.”

“To my letter of the day before yesterday I want to add that yesterday I had a letter from Rappard, and that our quarrel is completely made up, that he has sent me a sketch of a large picture of a brickyard which he is painting.”

“ache belo tudo o que puder, a maioria das pessoas não acha belo o suficiente.”

“I hope when you go back to Holland you will take along some study of mine to decorate your room.”

“Ce que l’homme tue Dieu le ressuscite [What man kills God resuscitates].”

“The Yellow House has never left the artist’s estate. Since 1962, it has been held by the Vincent van Gogh Foundation, established by the artist’s nephew, and is permanently housed in the Van Gogh Museum, Amsterdam.”

“There is nothing more beautiful than nature in the early morning.”

“Spero di avere un po’ di fortuna con quel quadro dei mangiatori di patate.”

“Sim, para mim, o drama da tempestade na natureza, o drama da dor na vida, são certamente os mais perfeitos. O “Paradou” é belo, mas Gethsemani é ainda mais belo”

“Por enquanto só O semeador e o Café noturno são ensaios de quadros compostos”

“meus sentimentos, em estado de exaltação, tendem mais às preocupações com a eternidade e a vida eterna.”

“O mesmo acontece com os homens, camponeses e mulheres; não é sempre que eles são interessantes, mas, quando se é paciente com eles, vemos tudo o que essas pessoas têm de Millet.”

“For the moment the solitude doesn’t bother me, and later we will find someone for company, and perhaps in the end more than we want. I believe it is not necessary to say anything unpleasant to Gauguin if he does change his mind, and take it absolutely in good part.”

“All right, but think of the winter, for here you can work all year round. The reason why I love this country is that I have less to fear from the cold, which, because it stops my blood circulating properly, makes it impossible for me to think or even do anything at all.”

“Aslında zorlukların üstünde fazla düşünmüyorum, çünkü bunlar üstünde gereğinden fazla durdun mu sersemliyorsun ya da iyice bozuluyorsun.”

“quanto mais eu reflito, mais eu sinto que não há nada de mais realmente artístico que amar as pessoas.”

“Still, a great deal of light falls on everything”

“An artist needn't be a clergyman or a churchwanderer, but he certainly must have a warm heart for his fellow men.”

“Tudo aqui é perfeitamente belo, como eu gosto. Quero dizer que aqui é a paz.”

“En ender rastlanan çiçeklerin açtığı yerleri bilirdi.”

“Sua alma, seu espírito, não estão a serviço de seu pincel, mas seu pincel é que está a serviço de seu espírito. Assim também a tela é que tem medo do bom pintor e não o pintor da tela.”

“Admire as much as you can; most people do not admire enough.”

“If one really loves nature, one can find beauty everywhere.”

“One must never trust the occasion when one is without difficulties.”

“So I have a horror of success.”

“Mas o que me toca, assim como certos romancistas de nossa época, é que as vozes dessas pessoas, que no caso de Shakespeare nos chegam de uma distância de vários séculos, não nos pareçam desconhecidas. É tão vivo que acreditamos conhecê-las e vê-las.”

“one must never let the fire in one’s soul die, for the time will inevitably come when it will be needed.”

“All I ask in painting is a way of escaping from life.”

“The more I am spent, ill, a broken pitcher, so much more am I an artist.”

“Enfim, é preciso que eu tente levar as coisas um pouco mais passivamente e ter paciência”

“Mi occorre anche una notte stellata con dei cipressi,”

“The more I think it over, the more I feel that is is nothing more truly artistic than to love people.”

“I do not say - far, very far be it from me to say - that I myself have the rayon blanc, but I am not ashamed to say that it exists, this White Light - and that I seek it, and only this do I consider simplicity.”

“que você encontre em seu amor pelas pessoas motivo não só para trabalhar mas com que se consolar e reerguer-se, quando necessário”

“Não poderia acreditar que é natural haver tanta frieza e desacordo.”

“Podemos viver, muito ou pouco, mas sempre haverá momentos em que perderemos a cabeça.”

“I always believe that I have a certain toughness in common with the peasants, who also do not eat so particularly well, and yet live and work on.”

“E o que devemos evitar a seguir, na minha opinião, é o desejo de ser na sociedade algo além de um pintor, quando se é um pintor.”

“If I can manage to paint the coloring of my own head, which is not to be done without some difficulty, I shall likewise be able to paint the heads of other good souls”

“E, com um pouco mais de sinceridade, tornaríamos a vida mais fácil para todos.”

“O mal é que estou bastante propenso a me deixar impressionar, a sentir eu próprio as crenças de outrem e a nem sempre questionar o fundo de verdade que possa existir no absurdo.”

“Whenever we meet disappointment and sickness and trouble, my boy, let us thank Him for having brought us this hour, and let us not forget meekness, for it is written: 'On this man will I look, even on him who is poor and sorrowful and who trembleth at My word.”

“Quanto a saber se é vendável ou invendável, este é um estribilho maçante, e não estou nem um pouco disposto a gastar minha energia nisto.”

“Isto não vai nada bem, estou mais triste e chateado do que poderia dizer e não sei mais onde estou.”

“You see I am not stronger than other people in that if I neglected myself too much, it would be the same with me as with so many painters (so very many if one thinks it over), I should drop dead, or worse still - become insane or an idiot.”

“Bom – afinal há tantos pintores que de um modo ou de outro são doidos, que pouco a pouco me consolarei.”

“Indeed, illness or death holds no terror for me, but happily for us, ambition is not compatible with the callings we follow. There are so many people in all classes of society, from the highest to the lowest, who believe that, anyway.”

“estou certo que a vontade de trabalhar me devorará e me tornará insensível a todo o resto, e de bom humor.”

“Пут је узак, врата су уска и мало је оних који их нађу.”

“And let me just say this: I think as much of brotherly integrity when it comes to Boussod’s money as you do. It has never played us false. And we have sweated far too much doing good work to get annoyed at being called thieves or incompetents.”

“E eu me deixarei ir não sem reflexão, mas sem insistir em lamentar coisas que poderiam ter acontecido.”

“And this will remain my policy, and it is quite possible that I shall give up my studio before long and go live in a peasant’s cottage, so as not to hear or see educated people - as they call themselves - any longer.”

“Aliás, a humildade me convém após a experiência de ataques repetidos. Portanto, não perco a paciência.”

“Agora, uma das causas pelas quais eu estou agora deslocado – e por que durante tantos anos estive deslocado – é simplesmente porque tenho ideias diferentes das desses senhores que dão cargos àqueles que pensam como eles.”

“Aqui, exceto a liberdade, exceto muitas outras coisas que eu gostaria que fossem diferentes, não estou muito mal.”

“This evening when the setting sun was reflected in the water and in the windows and cast a bright golden glow over everything, it looked just like a picture by Cuyp.”

“O que você quer? Sofrer sem reclamar é a única lição que se deve aprender nesta vida.”

“In my picture of the “Night Café” I have tried to express the idea that the café is a place where one can ruin oneself, go mad or commit a crime. So I have tried to express, as it were, the powers of darkness in a low public house,”

“Se estes senhores daqui protestam contra mim, eu também protesto contra eles, e só lhes resta me ressarcir por perdas e danos amigavelmente, enfim, só lhes resta devolver-me o que perderei por sua culpa e ignorância.”

“Theo, do not become materialistic like Tersteeg. The problem is, Theo, my brother, not to let yourself be bound, no matter by what, especially not by a golden chain.”

“Meu caro irmão, talvez o melhor seja zombar de nossas pequenas misérias e também um pouco das grandes misérias da vida humana.”

“Ao chegar aqui eu esperava arranjar apreciadores, mas até agora não me aproximei um só centímetro do coração das pessoas.”

“The man of faith, of energy, of warmth… steps in and does something.”

“Ludilo je spasonosno, jer čovek možda postaje manje isključiv.”

“Acabo de ler O ano terrível de Victor Hugo. Nele há esperança, mas... esta esperança está nas estrelas. Acho isto verdadeiro e bem dito e belo, aliás acredito nisto de bom grado.”

“L'arte è l'uomo sommato alla natura.”

“Pure in mezzo a difficoltà finanziarie sento che niente è più solido di un mestiere manuale.”

“Ich wäre sehr froh, wenn Du in mir doch etwas anderes sehen könntest als eine Art Nichtstuer.”

“Como é belo o amarelo!”

“Acho que isto se deve ao fato de que, antes de começar a pintar, desenhei e estudei perspectiva o tempo necessário para poder compor um assunto que eu visse.”

“И не надо принимать слишком близко к сердцу свои недостатки, ибо тот, у кого их нет, все же страдает одним - отсутствием недостатков; тот же, кто полагает, что достиг совершенной мудрости, хорошо сделает, если поглупеет снова.”

“It's true I'm sitting here lonely, but whilst I am sitting here in silence, my work perhaps speaks to my friend, and whoever sees it will not suspect me of being heartless.”

“But one doesn't expect out of life what one has already learned that it cannot give, but rather one begins to see more and more clearly that life is only a kind of sowing time, and the harvest is not here.”

“E se, quando jovens, podemos acreditar que pelo trabalho assíduo podemos satisfazer nossas necessidades, isto atualmente torna-se cada vez mais duvidoso.”

“Não renuncio à ideia que tenho sobre o retrato, pois é uma boa coisa lutar por isto, e mostrar às pessoas que existe nelas algo além do que um fotógrafo com sua máquina pode revelar”

“In any case, whether people approve or do not approve of what I do and how I do it, I for my part know no other way than to wrestle so long with nature that she tells me her secret.”

“Plus elle disparait plus elle apparait. [The more she disappears the more she appears.]”

“chúng ta đón cái chết để chạm tới một ngôi sao. Điều chắc chắn đúng trong lập luận này là nếu chúng ta còn sống, chúng ta không thể đến được một ngôi sao cũng như khi ta chết, chúng ta không thể bắt tàu nữa”

“I know you think this merciless to those at home. And yet I tell you that at times Father himself felt vaguely that he had made a mistake and had taken the wrong side. But he tried to reconcile irreconcilable things, and...he had not as much firmness of character as he seemed”

“Osecaj, cak i istancan osecaj za lepotu prirode nije jednak religioznom osecanju, mada verujem da su oba intimno povezana... gotovo svako poseduje osecaj za prirodu... ali samo malo njih oseca: Bog je duh, i onoi koji u njega veruju, moraju to ciniti i u duhu i u stvarnosti.”

“And meanwhile I am in my own hide, and my hide within the cog-wheels of the Fine Arts, like corn between the millstones.”

“Eu tinha começado a assinar minhas telas, mas logo parei com isto, pareceu-me demasiada besteira.”

“.كي يمثل المرء العالم، لا بد أن يموت في نفسه”

“Enfim, seja como for, eu quero ir adiante a qualquer custo, quero ser eu mesmo.”

“Pois bem, este é o meu forte, fazer um homem toscamente numa única sessão.”

“When all sounds cease, God’s voice is heard under the stars.”

“É que sinto em mim a obstinação e estou acima do que as pessoas possam dizer de mim e de minha obra”

“الإنسان لم يوجد على الأرض لمجرد أن يكون سعيدا، و لا لمجرد أن يكون مخلصا. هو هنا لتحقيق أشياء عظيمة من خلال المجتمع، للوصول إلى الرفعة و تجاوز السوقية التي يغرق فيها وجود كل فرد تقريبا.”

“Acontece-lhe, às vezes, Théo, de ficar apaixonado? Eu gostaria que isto lhe acontecesse, pois, creia-me, as “pequenas misérias” também têm seu valor.”

“É a primeira vez depois de muitos meses que eu pego um livro nas mãos. Isto me diz muito e me cura consideravelmente.”

“Todas essas coisas, família, pátria, talvez sejam mais encantadoras na imaginação de pessoas como nós, que passamos muito bem sem pátria e sem família, do que em qualquer realidade.”

“Que afinal o artista é um homem que trabalha, e definitivamente não é o primeiro pateta a aparecer que o vencerá.”

“I think it a splendid saying of Victor Hugo’s, “les religions passent, mais Dieu demure” [religions pass away, but God remains];”

“I have just read La Dame aux Camelias by Dumas. It is very good. Do you know it?”

“Penso em aceitar decididamente minha profissão de louco, assim como Degas tomou a forma de um escrivão.”

“I am hard at it, painting with the enthusiasm of a Marseillais eating bouillabaisse, which won't surprise you when you know that what I'm at is the painting of some great sunflowers.”

“Avevo incominciato a firmare i quadri, ma ho smesso subito, mi sembrava troppo cretino.”

“Millet nos legou a síntese do camponês e hoje, sim, temos Lhermitte, claro, há ainda alguns outros, Meunier... mas aprendemos hoje mais geralmente a ver os camponeses? Não, quase ninguém sabe produzir um.”

“della strana circostanza che Gauguin abbia preferito non parlarne più, mentre si eclissava,”

“Só me resta a escolha entre ser um bom pintor ou um mau pintor. Escolhi a primeira alternativa. Mas as necessidades da pintura são como as de uma amante ruinosa, não se consegue fazer nada sem dinheiro, e nunca se tem o suficiente.”

“You are kind to painters, and I tell you, the more I think it over, the more I feel that there is nothing more truly artistic than to love people. You will say that then it would be a good thing to do without art and artists.”

“Cerchiamo di non dimenticare, carissimo, che le piccole emozioni sono le grandi guide della nostra vita e che ad esse obbediamo senza saperlo.”

“.من خه‌ون به‌ نیگاره‌كانمه‌وه‌ ده‌بینم، دواتر خه‌ونه‌كانم ده‌كێشم”

“The present time is so interesting if one considers that it is possible we shall witness the beginning of the end of a society.”

“How much sadness there is in life! Nevertheless one must not become melancholy. One must seek distraction in other things, and the right thing is to work.”

“Preferiria ganhar 150 francos por mês como pintor do que 1.500 francos por mês por outros meios, mesmo como negociante de quadros.”

“I thought of the lines, 'And come the evening of my life, Worn out with care and strife I will, For each day granted me on earth, The air with praises to Thee fill.' Goodbye, a handshake in my thoughts, <br>Your very loving brother <br>Vincent”

“it can do no harm if others reflect whether we are in this world to tear down instead of build up. The expression “We don’t need that any more” - how readily it is used, and what a stupid and ugly phrase it is.”

“Estou bem estes dias, a não ser um certo fundo de vaga tristeza difícil de definir”

“Se algo em seu íntimo lhe disser “você não é pintor”, é então que você deve pintar, meu velho, e também esta voz se calará, mas somente desta maneira;”

“It is an old faith and it is a good faith that our life is a pilgrims progress - that we are strangers in the earth, but that though this be so, yet we are not alone for our Father is with us. We are pilgrims, our life is a long walk or journey from earth to heaven.”

“Mesmo esta vida artística, que sabemos não ser a verdadeira, parece-me tão vívida e seria uma ingratidão não contentar-se com ela.”

“ნორმალურობა ასფალტით დაგებული გზაა, კომფორტულია სასიარულოდ, მაგრამ ყვავილები არ იზრდება”

“Contudo, se queremos viver e trabalhar, é preciso ser muito prudentes e cuidar-nos. Água fria, ar, alimentação simples e boa, estar bem agasalhados, dormir bem, e não ter aborrecimentos”

